Graphic User Interface FAQ
**************************


General GUI Questions
=====================


What GUI toolkits exist for Python?
===================================

Standard builds of Python include an object-oriented interface to the
Tcl/Tk widget set, called tkinter.  This is probably the easiest to
install (since it comes included with most binary distributions of
Python) and use. For more info about Tk, including pointers to the
source, see the Tcl/Tk home page.  Tcl/Tk is fully portable to the
macOS, Windows, and Unix platforms.

Depending on what platform(s) you are aiming at, there are also
several alternatives. A list of cross-platform and platform-specific
GUI frameworks can be found on the python wiki.


Tkinter questions
=================


How do I freeze Tkinter applications?
-------------------------------------

Freeze is a tool to create stand-alone applications.  When freezing
Tkinter applications, the applications will not be truly stand-alone,
as the application will still need the Tcl and Tk libraries.

One solution is to ship the application with the Tcl and Tk libraries,
and point to them at run-time using the "TCL_LIBRARY" and "TK_LIBRARY"
environment variables.

To get truly stand-alone applications, the Tcl scripts that form the
library have to be integrated into the application as well. One tool
supporting that is SAM (stand-alone modules), which is part of the Tix
distribution (https://tix.sourceforge.net/).

Build Tix with SAM enabled, perform the appropriate call to
"Tclsam_init()", etc. inside Python's "Modules/tkappinit.c", and link
with libtclsam and libtksam (you might include the Tix libraries as
well).


Can I have Tk events handled while waiting for I/O?
---------------------------------------------------

On platforms other than Windows, yes, and you don't even need threads!
But you'll have to restructure your I/O code a bit.  Tk has the
equivalent of Xt's "XtAddInput()" call, which allows you to register a
callback function which will be called from the Tk mainloop when I/O
is possible on a file descriptor.  See File Handlers.


I can't get key bindings to work in Tkinter: why?
-------------------------------------------------

An often-heard complaint is that event handlers bound to events with
the "bind()" method don't get handled even when the appropriate key is
pressed.

The most common cause is that the widget to which the binding applies
doesn't have "keyboard focus".  Check out the Tk documentation for the
focus command. Usually a widget is given the keyboard focus by
clicking in it (but not for labels; see the takefocus option).
